802.3_2005_new_Version

43. Link Aggregation
43.1 Overview
This clause defines an optional Link Aggregation sublayer for use with CSMA/CD MACs. Link Aggregation allows one or more links to be aggregated together to form a Link Aggregation Group, such that a MAC
Client can treat the Link Aggregation Group as if it were a single link. To this end, it specifies the establishment of DTE to DTE logical links, consisting of N parallel instances of full duplex point-to-point links operating at the same data rate.
43.1.1 Terminology
In this clause, unless otherwise noted, the term link refers to an Aggregation Link and the term port refers to
Aggregation Port, as defined in 1.4. This allows for better readability of this clause while avoiding conflicting use of these terms in other clauses of this standard. Similarly, the term Key when used in this clause is
synonymous with Aggregation Key, and the term System is synonymous with Aggregation System.

43.1.2 Goals and objectives
Link Aggregation, as specified in this clause, provides the following:
a) Increased bandwidth—The capacity of multiple links is combined into one logical link.
b) Linearly incremental bandwidth—Bandwidth can be increased in unit multiples as opposed to the
order-of-magnitude increase available through Physical Layer technology options (10 Mb/s, 100
Mb/s, 1000 Mb/s, etc.).
c) Increased availability—The failure or replacement of a single link within a Link Aggregation
Group need not cause failure from the perspective of a MAC Client.
d) Load sharing—MAC Client traffic may be distributed across multiple links.
e) Automatic configuration—In the absence of manual overrides, an appropriate set of Link Aggregation Groups is automatically configured, and individual links are allocated to those groups. If a set
of links can aggregate, they will aggregate.
f) Rapid configuration and reconfiguration—In the event of changes in physical connectivity, Link
Aggregation will quickly converge to a new configuration, typically on the order of 1 second or less.
g) Deterministic behavior—Depending on the selection algorithm chosen, the configuration can be
made to resolve deterministically; i.e., the resulting aggregation can be made independent of the
order in which events occur, and be completely determined by the capabilities of the individual links
and their physical connectivity.


h) Low risk of duplication or mis-ordering—During both steady-state operation and link (re)configuration, there is a high probability that frames are neither duplicated nor mis-ordered.
i) Support of existing IEEE 802.3 MAC Clients—No change is required to existing higher-layer
protocols or applications to use Link Aggregation.
j) Backwards compatibility with aggregation-unaware devices—Links that cannot take part in
Link Aggregation—either because of their inherent capabilities, management configuration, or the
capabilities of the devices to which they attach—operate as normal, individual IEEE 802.3 links.
k) Accommodation of differing capabilities and constraints—Devices with differing hardware and
software constraints on Link Aggregation are, to the extent possible, accommodated.
l) No change to the IEEE 802.3 frame format—Link aggregation neither adds to, nor changes the
contents of frames exchanged between MAC Clients.
m) Network management support—The standard specifies appropriate management objects for configuration, monitoring, and control of Link Aggregation.


Link Aggregation, as specified in this clause, does not support the following:
n) Multipoint Aggregations—The mechanisms specified in this clause do not support aggregations
among more than two Systems.
o) Dissimilar MACs—Link Aggregation is supported only on links using the IEEE 802.3 MAC.
p) Half-duplex operation—Link Aggregation is supported only on point-to-point links with MACs
operating in full duplex mode.
q) Operation across multiple data rates—All links in a Link Aggregation Group operate at the same
data rate (e.g., 10 Mb/s, 100 Mb/s, or 1000 Mb/s).
43.1.3 Positioning of Link Aggregation within the IEEE 802.3 architecture
Link Aggregation comprises an optional sublayer between a MAC Client and the MAC (or optional MAC
Control sublayer). Figure 43–1 depicts the positioning of the Link Aggregation sublayer in the CSMA/CD
layer architecture, and the relationship of that architecture to the Data Link and Physical Layers of the OSI
Reference Model. The figure also shows the ability of the Link Aggregation sublayer to combine a number
of individual links in order to present a single MAC interface to the MAC Client.

