LACP 
链路汇聚控制协议
Link Aggregation Control Protocol
中文名 链路汇聚控制协议 
外文名 Link Aggregation Control Protocol 
本    质 实现链路动态汇聚的协议 
简    称 LACP 
工作模式 passive，active 
使用场合 带宽比较紧张的情况


基于IEEE802.3ad标准的LACP（链路汇聚控制协议）是一种实现链路动态汇聚的协议。LACP协议通过LACPDU（链路汇聚控制协议数据单元）与对端交互信息。启用某端口的LACP协议后，该端口将通过发送LACPDU向对端通告自己的系统优先级、系统MAC地址、端口优先级、端口号和操作Key。对端接收到这些信息后，将这些信息与其它端口所保存的信息比较以选择能够汇聚的端口，从而双方可以对端口加入或退出某个动态汇聚组达成一致。 

概述编辑
LACP（Link Aggregation Control Protocol，链路聚合控制协议）是一种基于IEEE802.3ad标准的协议。LACP协议通过LACPDU（Link Aggregation Control Protocol Data Unit，链路聚合控制协议数据单元）与对端交互信息。
处于动态聚合组中的接口会自动使用LACP协议，该接口将通过发送LACPDU向对端通告自己的系统LACP协议优先级、系统MAC、端口的LACP协议优先级、端口号和操作Key。对端接收到LACPDU后，将其中的信息与其他接口所收到的信息进行比较，以选择能够处于selected状态的接口，从而双方可以对接口处于selected状态达成一致。
链路聚合往往用在两个重要节点或繁忙节点之间，既能增加互联带宽，又提供了连接的可靠性。 [2] 


802.3_2005_new_Version

43. Link Aggregation
43.1 Overview
This clause defines an optional Link Aggregation sublayer for use with CSMA/CD MACs. Link Aggregation allows one or more links to be aggregated together to form a Link Aggregation Group, such that a MAC
Client can treat the Link Aggregation Group as if it were a single link. To this end, it specifies the establishment of DTE to DTE logical links, consisting of N parallel instances of full duplex point-to-point links operating at the same data rate.
43.1.1 Terminology
In this clause, unless otherwise noted, the term link refers to an Aggregation Link and the term port refers to
Aggregation Port, as defined in 1.4. This allows for better readability of this clause while avoiding conflicting use of these terms in other clauses of this standard. Similarly, the term Key when used in this clause is
synonymous with Aggregation Key, and the term System is synonymous with Aggregation System.

43.1.2 Goals and objectives
Link Aggregation, as specified in this clause, provides the following:
a) Increased bandwidth—The capacity of multiple links is combined into one logical link.
b) Linearly incremental bandwidth—Bandwidth can be increased in unit multiples as opposed to the
order-of-magnitude increase available through Physical Layer technology options (10 Mb/s, 100
Mb/s, 1000 Mb/s, etc.).
c) Increased availability—The failure or replacement of a single link within a Link Aggregation
Group need not cause failure from the perspective of a MAC Client.
d) Load sharing—MAC Client traffic may be distributed across multiple links.
e) Automatic configuration—In the absence of manual overrides, an appropriate set of Link Aggregation Groups is automatically configured, and individual links are allocated to those groups. If a set
of links can aggregate, they will aggregate.
f) Rapid configuration and reconfiguration—In the event of changes in physical connectivity, Link
Aggregation will quickly converge to a new configuration, typically on the order of 1 second or less.
g) Deterministic behavior—Depending on the selection algorithm chosen, the configuration can be
made to resolve deterministically; i.e., the resulting aggregation can be made independent of the
order in which events occur, and be completely determined by the capabilities of the individual links
and their physical connectivity.


h) Low risk of duplication or mis-ordering—During both steady-state operation and link (re)configuration, there is a high probability that frames are neither duplicated nor mis-ordered.
i) Support of existing IEEE 802.3 MAC Clients—No change is required to existing higher-layer
protocols or applications to use Link Aggregation.
j) Backwards compatibility with aggregation-unaware devices—Links that cannot take part in
Link Aggregation—either because of their inherent capabilities, management configuration, or the
capabilities of the devices to which they attach—operate as normal, individual IEEE 802.3 links.
k) Accommodation of differing capabilities and constraints—Devices with differing hardware and
software constraints on Link Aggregation are, to the extent possible, accommodated.
l) No change to the IEEE 802.3 frame format—Link aggregation neither adds to, nor changes the
contents of frames exchanged between MAC Clients.
m) Network management support—The standard specifies appropriate management objects for configuration, monitoring, and control of Link Aggregation.


Link Aggregation, as specified in this clause, does not support the following:
n) Multipoint Aggregations—The mechanisms specified in this clause do not support aggregations
among more than two Systems.
o) Dissimilar MACs—Link Aggregation is supported only on links using the IEEE 802.3 MAC.
p) Half-duplex operation—Link Aggregation is supported only on point-to-point links with MACs
operating in full duplex mode.
q) Operation across multiple data rates—All links in a Link Aggregation Group operate at the same
data rate (e.g., 10 Mb/s, 100 Mb/s, or 1000 Mb/s).
43.1.3 Positioning of Link Aggregation within the IEEE 802.3 architecture
Link Aggregation comprises an optional sublayer between a MAC Client and the MAC (or optional MAC
Control sublayer). Figure 43–1 depicts the positioning of the Link Aggregation sublayer in the CSMA/CD
layer architecture, and the relationship of that architecture to the Data Link and Physical Layers of the OSI
Reference Model. The figure also shows the ability of the Link Aggregation sublayer to combine a number
of individual links in order to present a single MAC interface to the MAC Client.

