HOMEDOWNLOADSUPPORTCONTRIBUTEDOCSWIKIBLOG
Download QEMU
Source code
Grab the source code for the latest releases and compile it yourself! Detailed compilation instructions can be found in the wiki for Linux, Win32 and macOS.

7.0.0-rc2
Mar 29th 2022
signature — changes 
6.2.0
Dec 14th 2021
signature — changes 
6.1.1
Dec 23rd 2021
signature — changes
Full list of releases

or stay on the bleeding edge with the git repository!

Build instructions
To download and build QEMU 7.0.0-rc2:

wget https://download.qemu.org/qemu-7.0.0-rc2.tar.xz
tar xvJf qemu-7.0.0-rc2.tar.xz
cd qemu-7.0.0-rc2
./configure
make
To download and build QEMU from git:

git clone https://gitlab.com/qemu-project/qemu.git
cd qemu
git submodule init
git submodule update --recursive
./configure
make
The latest development happens on the master branch. The stable trees are located in branches named stable-X.YY branch, where X.YY is the release version.

Linux
QEMU is packaged by most Linux distributions:

Arch: pacman -S qemu

Debian/Ubuntu: apt-get install qemu

Fedora: dnf install @virtualization

Gentoo: emerge --ask app-emulation/qemu

RHEL/CentOS: yum install qemu-kvm

SUSE: zypper install qemu

macOS
QEMU can be installed from Homebrew:

brew install qemu
QEMU can be installed from MacPorts:

sudo port install qemu
QEMU requires the most recent macOS version that is currently available. Support for the last previous version will be dropped two years after the current version has been released or when Apple drops support for it, whatever comes first.

Windows
Stefan Weil provides binaries and installers for both 32-bit and 64-bit Windows.

Version numbering
Since version 3.0.0, QEMU uses a time based version numbering scheme:

major
incremented by 1 for the first release of the year
minor
reset to 0 with every major increment, otherwise incremented by 1 for each release from git master
micro
always 0 for releases from git master, incremented by 1 for each stable branch release
The implication of this is that changes in major version number do not have any bearing on the scope of changes included in the release. Non-backward compatible changes may be made in any master branch release, provided they have followed the deprecation policy which calls for warnings to be emitted for a minimum of two releases prior to the change.

Advent calendar Blog planet KVM Libguestfs Libvirt Xen
page sourceQEMU is a member of Software Freedom ConservancyQEMU has sponsorsWebsite licenses