Installati.one

    About
    Ubuntu
    CentOS
    Fedora
    Kali Linux
    Debian

    Ubuntu
        Ubuntu 18.04
        Ubuntu 20.04
        Ubuntu 21.04
        Ubuntu 21.10
        Ubuntu 22.10
        Ubuntu 22.04

    Introduction
        What is ros-desktop
    Install ros-desktop Using apt-get
    Install ros-desktop Using apt
    Install ros-desktop Using aptitude
    How To Uninstall ros-desktop on Ubuntu 22.04
        Uninstall ros-desktop And Its Dependencies
        Remove ros-desktop Configurations and Data
        Remove ros-desktop configuration, data, and all of its dependencies
    References
    Summary

    Ubuntu
    Ubuntu 22.04
    ros-desktop

How To Install ros-desktop on Ubuntu 22.04
In this tutorial we learn how to install ros-desktop on Ubuntu 22.04. ros-desktop is Robot OS desktop metapackage
Introduction

In this tutorial we learn how to install ros-desktop on Ubuntu 22.04.
What is ros-desktop

ros-desktop is:

    This package is part of Robot OS (ROS). It is a metapackage which provides the ROS desktop system (including ROS robot and viz).

Different to upstream, this package does not provide: common_tutorials, geometry_tutorials, ros_tutorials, roslint, urdf_tutorial, visualization_tutorials. Please install them from source, if you need them.

There are three ways to install ros-desktop on Ubuntu 22.04. We can use apt-get, apt and aptitude. In the following sections we will describe each method. You can choose one of them.
Install ros-desktop Using apt-get

Update apt database with apt-get using the following command.

sudo apt-get update

After updating apt database, We can install ros-desktop using apt-get by running the following command:

sudo apt-get -y install ros-desktop

Install ros-desktop Using apt

Update apt database with apt using the following command.

sudo apt update

After updating apt database, We can install ros-desktop using apt by running the following command:

sudo apt -y install ros-desktop

Install ros-desktop Using aptitude

If you want to follow this method, you might need to install aptitude first since aptitude is usually not installed by default on Ubuntu. Update apt database with aptitude using the following command.

sudo aptitude update

After updating apt database, We can install ros-desktop using aptitude by running the following command:

sudo aptitude -y install ros-desktop

How To Uninstall ros-desktop on Ubuntu 22.04

To uninstall only the ros-desktop package we can use the following command:

sudo apt-get remove ros-desktop

Uninstall ros-desktop And Its Dependencies

To uninstall ros-desktop and its dependencies that are no longer needed by Ubuntu 22.04, we can use the command below:

sudo apt-get -y autoremove ros-desktop

Remove ros-desktop Configurations and Data

To remove ros-desktop configuration and data from Ubuntu 22.04 we can use the following command:

sudo apt-get -y purge ros-desktop

Remove ros-desktop configuration, data, and all of its dependencies

We can use the following command to remove ros-desktop configurations, data and all of its dependencies, we can use the following command:

sudo apt-get -y autoremove --purge ros-desktop

References

    ros-desktop website
    ros-desktop on packages.ubuntu.com

Summary

In this tutorial we learn how to install ros-desktop package on Ubuntu 22.04 using different package management tools: apt, apt-get and aptitude.
© 2023 installati.one All Rights Reserved

About Installati.one
